Sizodon 3 Tablet
Prescription Required
Marketer
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd
SALT COMPOSITION
Risperidone (3mg)
Storage
Store below 30°C
Product introduction
Sizodon 3 Tablet is used in the treatment of schizophrenia (a mental disorder that can result in hallucinations or delusions and also adversely affects a person’s ability to think and behave) and mania.

Sizodon 3 Tablet is taken with or without food, preferably at night. However, it is advised to take it at the same time each day as this helps to maintain a consistent level of medicine in the body. Take this in the dose and duration as advised by your doctor and if you have missed a dose, take it as soon as you remember. It is important that this medication is not stopped suddenly without talking to your doctor as it may worsen your symptoms. However, discontinue this medicine immediately if you experience Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), characterized by fever, muscle rigidity, and altered consciousness or seizures.

Some common side effects of this medicine include insomnia, sedation, somnolence, parkinsonism, and headache. Initially, this medicine may cause a sudden drop in blood pressure when you change positions, so it is better to rise slowly if you have been sitting or lying down. It also causes dizziness and sleepiness, so do not drive or do anything that requires mental focus until you know how this medicine affects you. This medicine may increase your weight but, modifying your lifestyle by having a healthy diet and exercising regularly can reduce this side effect.

You should be cautious while using this medicine as it may increase the risk of developing diabetes, so it is better to monitor glucose regularly. Inform your doctor if you develop any unusual changes in mood or behavior, new or worsening depression, or suicidal thoughts while taking this medicine.
Uses of Sizodon Tablet

    Treatment of Schizophrenia
    Treatment of Mania

Benefits of Sizodon Tablet
In Treatment of Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder in which a person’s thinking ability, feelings and behavior become abnormal. Sizodon 3 Tablet helps restore the chemical imbalances in the brain that are responsible for such changes. It improves thoughts, behavior and enhances the quality of life.
In Treatment of Mania
Mania means extremely excited or elevated mood. Sizodon 3 Tablet helps calm the mood and relax the nerves. This stabilises the mood and prevents the symptoms of mania from recurring again. Taking Sizodon 3 Tablet will ensure that you have a better social life and are able to do daily activities more comfortably.
show more
Side effects of Sizodon Tablet
Most side effects do not require any medical attention and disappear as your body adjusts to the medicine. Consult your doctor if they persist or if you’re worried about them
Common side effects of Sizodon

    Headache
    Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)
    Parkinsonism
    Drowsiness
    Sedation

How to use Sizodon Tablet
Take this medicine in the dose and duration as advised by your doctor. Swallow it as a whole. Do not chew, crush or break it. Sizodon 3 Tablet may be taken with or without food, but it is better to take it at a fixed time.
How Sizodon Tablet works
Sizodon 3 Tablet is an atypical antipsychotic. It works by affecting the levels of chemical messengers (dopamine and serotonin) to improve mood, thoughts and behavior.
Safety advice
warnings
Alcohol
UNSAFE
Sizodon 3 Tablet may cause excessive drowsiness with alcohol.
warnings
Pregnancy
CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR
Sizodon 3 Tablet may be unsafe to use during pregnancy. Although there are limited studies in humans, animal studies have shown harmful effects on the developing baby. Your doctor will weigh the benefits and any potential risks before prescribing it to you. Please consult your doctor.
warnings
Breast feeding
CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR
Sizodon 3 Tablet is probably unsafe to use during breastfeeding. Limited human data suggests that the drug may pass into the breastmilk and harm the baby.
warnings
Driving
UNSAFE
Sizodon 3 Tablet may decrease alertness, affect your vision or make you feel sleepy and dizzy. Do not drive if these symptoms occur.
warnings
Kidney
CAUTION
Sizodon 3 Tablet should be used with caution in patients with kidney disease. Dose adjustment of Sizodon 3 Tablet may be needed. Please consult your doctor.
warnings
Liver
CAUTION
Sizodon 3 Tablet should be used with caution in patients with liver disease. Dose adjustment of Sizodon 3 Tablet may be needed. Please consult your doctor.
What if you forget to take Sizodon Tablet?
If you miss a dose of Sizodon 3 Tablet, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule. Do not double the dose.
All substitutes
For informational purposes only. Consult a doctor before taking any medicines.
No substitutes found for this medicine
Quick tips
video img
play img

    Sizodon 3 Tablet helps treat schizophrenia and mania.
    It may cause less weight gain, sedation, and heart problems as compared to other similar medicines.
    It may take 4-6 weeks to notice any medication effects. Keep taking it as prescribed.
    Use caution while driving or doing anything that requires concentration as Sizodon 3 Tablet can cause dizziness and sleepiness.
    It may cause increase in weight, blood sugar, cholesterol, and fat. Eat healthy, exercise, and monitor your levels regularly.
    Inform your doctor  if you experience any abnormal movements or restlessness.
    Inform your doctor if you have a history of heart diseases as Sizodon 3 Tablet can increase your risk of irregular heartbeat.
    Do not stop taking Sizodon 3 Tablet without talking  to your doctor first as it may cause worsening of symptoms.

Fact Box
Chemical Class
Benzisoxazole Derivative
Habit Forming
No
Therapeutic Class
NEURO CNS
Action Class
Atypical Antipsychotics